Update ILIAS Installation Documentation (#9007)
ILIAS-eLearning/ILIAS: docs/configuration/install.md

# ILIAS Installation

This is the installation guide for ILIAS 10, providing step-by-step instructions to set up all necessary components, 
including the web server, database, and ILIAS code. Follow these instructions carefully to ensure a successful 

> installation of the e-Learning software. Each section will guide you through the required configurations and setups 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installation of the e-learning software. Each section will guide you through the required configurations and setups 
```

needs based on the amount of files and media content you expect to upload plus a
few GBs for the database.

<a name="supported-system"></a>
## Supported Software Setup and Reference System

The following software versions are required/supported for ILIAS 10. The table below lists these versions alongside the 

> current configuration of the ILIAS test server, which serves as a reference system (https://test10.ilias.de).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
current configuration of the [ILIAS test server](https://test10.ilias.de), which serves as a reference system.
```

| Distribution | current version of Debian GNU Linux, Ubuntu or RHEL    | Ubuntu 22.04 LTS |
| Database     | MySQL >8.0.21 or MariaDB 10.5 - 10.11                  | MariaDB 10.6.18  |
| PHP          | 8.2, 8.3                                               | 8.3              |
| Webserver    | nginx: 1.12.x – 1.18.x, Apache: ≥ 2.4.x                | Apache 2.4.52    |
| JDK          | Open JDK Runtime 11, 17 or 21 LTS                      | OpenJDK 17       |
| Node.js      | 20 (LTS), 21, 22 (LTS), 23 Recommended: 22             | 16.20            |
| Ghostscript  | 10.x                                                   | 9.55             |
| Imagemagick  | 6.9.x                                                  | 6.9.11           |
| MathJax      | MathJax 3, MathJax 2 with safe mode                    | 2.7.9            |
| Browser      | a contemporary browser supporting ES6, CSS3 and HTML 5 |                  |

Package names may vary depending on the Linux distribution.

> Please note that other platforms and configurations should be possible, but it
> might be harder to find someone who can help when things go south. You should not

> > use a different configuration unless you are an experienced system administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Please note that other platforms and configurations may be possible, but it
> might be difficult to find someone who can help in case of issues. We strongly recommend **not**
> using a different configuration unless you are an experienced system administrator.
```

<a name="installation-on-linux"></a>
# Installation on Ubuntu 24.04

Depending on your Linux Distribution you have several ways to install the required
dependencies. We recommend to always use your distributions package manager to

> keep your packages up to date in an easy manner avoiding security issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your Linux Distribution, you have several ways to install the required
dependencies. We recommend to always use your distributions package manager to
easily keep your packages up to date avoiding security issues.
```

Here we choose Ubuntu 24.04 because it already meets the recommended PHP version 8.3.
For other Ubuntu or Debian-based Linux systems, we recommend using [https://deb.sury.org/](https://deb.sury.org/) to install the correct 

> PHP version later on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide we choose Ubuntu 24.04 because it already meets the recommended PHP version 8.3.
For other Ubuntu or Debian-based Linux systems, we recommend using [DEB.SURY.ORG](https://deb.sury.org/) to install the correct 
PHP version later on.
```

<a name="install-dependencies"></a>
## Install Dependencies

`openjdk-17-jdk` and `maven` are optional and are used for the ILIAS RPC server for search indexing and certificate generation. 
`git` is required if the source code is obtained directly from GitHub.

> Also `nodejs` and `npm` are required if you get the source directly to download the javascript dependencies in the installation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nodejs` and `npm` are required as well if you get the source directly to download the javascript dependencies in the installation process.
```

> Alternatively, they can be obtained directly from the distribution package at [https://deb.nodesource.com/](https://getcomposer.org/download/) to select appropriate nodejs versions according to the [Recommended Setup for Running ILIAS](#recommended-setup-for-running-ilias).

Reviewer: Which website link is correct here? There's 2 different ones in [] and (). Also, I would only put the website's title in the square brackets, not the full URL (only if necessary for clarification, I'd use a shortened version of the URL). So if Nodesource should be correct here, it would look like this: \[Nodesource\](https://deb.nodesource.com/).

`ffmpeg` is optionally used to optimise media files, and `ghostscript` is optionally used to create file previews.

```shell
apt update
apt update zip unzip openjdk-17-jdk maven ffmpeg git ghostscript nodejs npm
```

<a name="install-webserver"></a>
## Webserver Installation/Configuration

In this guide, we use Apache2 as the web server, utilizing `libapache2-mod-php` to process PHP files. 
Other web servers capable of processing PHP, such as Nginx or Apache2 with FCGI and PHP-FPM, can also be used.

**Required PHP Extensions:**
```
gd, dom, xsl, mysql, curl, json, simplexml, libxml, xml, zip, imagick, intl, mbstring
```

**Optional PHP Extensions:**

* `xmlrpc` for the ILIAS RPC server
* `soap` for SOAP user administration 
* `ldap` for LDAP user authentication

> The PHP packet manager Composer is necessary to download all external PHP dependencies and for php autoloading. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PHP packet manager Composer is necessary to download all external PHP dependencies and for PHP autoloading. 
```

> Alternatively it can be obtained directly from [https://getcomposer.org/download/](https://getcomposer.org/download/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, it can be obtained directly from [getcomposer.org](https://getcomposer.org/download/). 
```

Composer may be optional when using the prepacked ILIAS from [Download & Releases](https://docu.ilias.de/go/pg/197851_35), but it is necessary when using plugins to rebuild the PHP autoload classmap.

```shell
apt install apache2 libapache2-mod-php php php-gd php-xsl php-imagick php-curl php-mysql php-xmlrpc php-soap php-ldap composer
```

Create a directory for the html sources (e.g. `/var/www/ilias`) which is referenced in the apache2 vhost and also a directory outside the web servers docroot (e.g. `/var/www/files`) for files stored by ILIAS. 
Make sure that the web server is the owner of the files and directories that were created by changing the group and owner to www-data (on Debian/Ubuntu) or apache (on RHEL).

In addition to the file folder, ILIAS also needs a place to create the log files
(e.g. `/var/www/logs`). The 'ilias.log' can be viewed there later, as well as all
error_log files, which are created in case of errors and are referenced in ILIAS by
an errorcode.

> Also to store the ilias configuartion which is later used to configurate ilias we create the folder /var/www/config . to prevent problems later with npm we create /var/www/.npm with webowner rights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, to store the ILIAS configuration, which is later used to configurate ILIAS, we create the folder /var/www/config. To prevent future issues with npm we create /var/www/.npm with webowner rights.
```

<a name="install-dependencies"></a>
## Install Dependencies

`openjdk-17-jdk` and `maven` are optional and are used for the ILIAS RPC server for search indexing and certificate generation. 
`git` is required if the source code is obtained directly from GitHub.
`nodejs` and `npm` are required as well if you get the source directly to download the javascript dependencies in the installation process.
Alternatively, they can be obtained directly from the distribution package at [Nodesource](https://deb.nodesource.com/) to select appropriate nodejs versions according to the [Recommended Setup for Running ILIAS](#recommended-setup-for-running-ilias).
`ffmpeg` is optionally used to optimise media files, and `ghostscript` is optionally used to create file previews.

```shell
apt update
apt update zip unzip openjdk-17-jdk maven ffmpeg git ghostscript nodejs npm
```

<a name="install-webserver"></a>
## Webserver Installation/Configuration

In this guide, we use Apache2 as the web server, utilizing `libapache2-mod-php` to process PHP files. 
Other web servers capable of processing PHP, such as Nginx or Apache2 with FCGI and PHP-FPM, can also be used.

**Required PHP Extensions:**
```

> gd, dom, xsl, mysql, curl, json, simplexml, libxml, xml, zip, imagick, intl, mbstring

Reviewer 2: pdo is missing.  (probably instead of mysql?)

</VirtualHost>
```

In order to secure access to the files in your `data` directory, you should enable `mod_rewrite` on Debian/Ubuntu (should be enabled by default on RHEL/CentOS):

```shell
a2enmod rewrite
systemctl restart apache2.service
```

To check if the installation was successfull create the file `/var/www/ilias/phpinfo.php` with the following contents:

```
<?php
phpinfo();
```

Then point your browser to ```http://example.com/phpinfo.php```. 
If you see the content of the file as shown above your configuration is **not** working. 

> If you can see details of your PHP Configuration everything works fine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see the content of the file as shown above, your configuration is **not** working. 
If you can see details of your PHP configuration, everything works fine. 
```

Search for the entry ```Loaded configuration file``` as we now made some changes to it (e.g. `/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini`).
Delete the file `phpinfo.php` afterwards.

> We recommend the atleast following settings for your php.ini:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend at least the following settings for your php.ini:
```

Restart the apache webserver after you installed and configured your dependencies.

```shell
systemctl restart apache2.service
```

Please see [Hardening and Security Guidance](#hardening-and-security-guidance) for further security relevant configuration.

Remember to reload your web server configuration to apply those changes.

Please ensure that PHP is compiled with `libargon2`. 

> This is mostly the case for common distributions, but if you compile PHP yourself it must be build with `--with-password-argon2[=DIR]` (see: https://www.php.net/manual/en/password.installation.php).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is mostly the case for common distributions, but if you compile PHP yourself, it must be build with `--with-password-argon2[=DIR]` (see: https://www.php.net/manual/en/password.installation.php).
```

<a name="install-database"></a>
## Database Installation/Configuration

On Debian/Ubuntu execute:
```shell
apt install mariadb-server
```

> Please note that installing ILIAS in utf8mb4-collations is currently not supported!
> ILIAS supports utf8-collations with 3 bytes per character, such as `utf8_general_ci`, only.

> We RECOMMEND to use MariaDB with the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We **strongly recommend** to use MariaDB with the following settings:
```

```
<details>
<summary>If you use tags to directly reference ILIAS versions</summary>

```shell
cd /var/www/ilias/
sudo -uwww-data git clone https://github.com/ILIAS-eLearning/ILIAS.git . --single-branch -b v10.X
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>If you use the tar.gz provided in the release</summary>
Download the file in [download](https://docu.ilias.de/go/lm/35).

```shell
sudo -uwww-data wget https://github.com/ILIAS-eLearning/ILIAS/releases/download/v10.X/ILIAS-10.X.tar.gz
sudo -uwww-data tar -xzf ILIAS-10.X.tar.gz  -C /var/www/ilias --strip-components=1 ILIAS-10.X/
```
</details>

The GitHub repository of ILIAS doesn't contain all code that is required to run. To download the required PHP-dependencies and
to create static artifacts from the source, run the following in your ILIAS folder:
```shell
sudo -uwww-data npm clean-install --omit=dev --ignore-scripts
sudo -uwww-data composer install --no-dev
```

We recommend that the rights of the ILIAS code in the production system are restricted so that the web server only has 
read access to the code. For this and other important security considerations, please refer to the security

> instructions in the [security guide](./secure.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend restricting the rights of the ILIAS code in the production system so that the web server only has 
read access to the code. For this and other important security considerations, please refer to the security
instructions in the [Security Guide](./secure.md).
```

                "errorlog_dir" : "/var/www/logs/"
    	},
        "http" : {
                "path" : "http://www.example.com"
        },
        "systemfolder" : {
                "contact" : {
                        "firstname" : "Richard",
                        "lastname" : "Klees",
                        "email" : "richard.klees@concepts-and-training.de"
                }
        },
        "utilities" : {
        	"path_to_convert" : "/usr/bin/convert"
    	},
    	"mediaobject" : {
		"path_to_ffmpeg" : "/usr/bin/ffmpeg"
	},
	"preview" : {
		"path_to_ghostscript" : "/usr/bin/gs"
	},
}
```

Run the ILIAS command line setup from within your ILIAS folder with your configuration
file (located outside your doc-root!) as a parameter:

```shell
sudo -uwww-data php cli/setup.php install /var/www/config/ilias.json
```

The installation will display what currently happens and might prompt you with
questions. You might want to have a look into the [documentation of the command line setup](../../setup/README.md)
or into the help of the program itself `php cli/setup.php help`. It is the tool
to manage and monitor your ILIAS installation.

> If you are installing from git, it is possible that ILIAS will already require some few migration to the initial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are installing from Git, it is possible that ILIAS will already require a few migrations to the initial
```

database. Run the setup migration and follow the steps shown. This is also necessary whenever you update your code.

```shell
php cli/setup.php migrate
```

Now that you have ILIAS installed, you can start by logging in as root. Go to your http path and log in with the 
username `root` and password `homer`. ILIAS will ask you for a new password after the first login.

<a name="install-further"></a>
## Install Further Components

Optionally you can continue with the installation of further components to get the full functionality of ILIAS:

1. **ILIAS Java RPC server**
It is used for certain optional functions such as Lucene Search
or generating PDF Certificates. See [Lucene RPC-Server](../../components/ILIAS/WebServices/RPC/lib/README.md) for details

> on how to install the rpc server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on how to install the RPC server.
```

2. **ILIAS Chat Server** 
It is used to provide an interactive chat experience between users.
See [Chat Server](../../components/ILIAS/Chatroom/README.md) for details on how to install the chat server.
3. **E-Mail**
You either use a MTA of your liking to send e-mail generated by ILIAS or configure a SMPT Connection in ILIAS 
"Administration > Communication > Settings > Extern" by activating and configuring "Send via SMTP". We recommend
to use a MTA installed to your OS like `postfix`. On Debian/Ubuntu execute and configure it according to their instructions:
```shell
apt-get install postfix
```

<a name="install-plugins-and-styles"></a>
## Install Plugins and Styles

Plugins are the way to add new functionality to your ILIAS installation. Do not
change the core files, or you will not be able to update your installation easily.
A variety of free plugins is provided from our community via the [ILIAS Plugin Repository](https://docu.ilias.de/go/cat/1442).

> To develop plugins, you can start in our [development guide](https://docu.ilias.de/go/pg/27030_42).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To develop plugins, you can get started in our [Development Guide](https://docu.ilias.de/go/pg/27030_42).
```

<a name="backup-ilias"></a>
# Backup ILIAS

There are three places where the ILIAS core system stores data that needs to be backed up in order to restore your 
system in case of failure.
* Internal data within your webroot `<ILIAS-root-folder>/public/data` in our case `/var/www/ilias/public/data`.
* External data, configured in `ilias.json` within `filesystem.data_dir`, in our case `/var/www/files/ilias`.
* The database, which can easily be done by running `mysqldump'.
```shell
mysqldump --lock-tables=false -u<database user> -p <database name> > /path/to/your/backup/folder/ilias-backup.sql
# Prompt for password
```

When restoring the ILIAS files to the designated folder, remember to set the correct permissions and ownership of your 
web server. To restore the database, drop the old database with `DROP DATABASE <database-name>;`, create an empty 
database according to [Database Installation/Configuration](#install-database) and write the database dump to this database:
```shell
mysql -u<database-user> -p <database-name> < /path/to/your/backup/folder/ilias-backup.sql
# Prompt for password
```

<a name="upgrading-ilias"></a>
# Upgrading ILIAS

> The easiest way to update ILIAS is using git, please note that this is only possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to update ILIAS is using Git. Please note that this is only possible
```

> if you installed ILIAS via git as advised in this document. If git wasn't used you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if you installed ILIAS via Git as advised in this document. If Git wasn't used you
```

sudo -uwww-data composer install --no-dev
```

<details>
<summary>If you use tags to directly reference ILIAS versions</summary>

```shell
sudo -uwww-data git fetch origin v10.X:v10.X
sudo -uwww-data git checkout v10.X
sudo -uwww-data npm clean-install --omit-dev --ignore-scripts
sudo -uwww-data composer install --no-dev
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>If you use the tar.gz provided in the release</summary>

Download the archive of the newest ILIAS minor version in [download](https://docu.ilias.de/go/lm/35).

```shell
sudo -uwww-data wget https://github.com/ILIAS-eLearning/ILIAS/releases/download/v10.X/ILIAS-10.X.tar.gz
sudo -uwww-data mkdir /tmp/ilias_update
sudo -uwww-data tar -xzf ILIAS-10.X.tar.gz  -C /tmp/ilias_update --strip-components=1 ILIAS-10.X/
sudo -uwww-data rsync -av --exclude='/public/' --exclude='/Customizing/' --exclude='/data/' --exclude='ilias.ini.php' /tmp/ilias_update/ /var/www/ilias/
rm -rf /tmp/ilias_update
```
If you have plugins installed, you will need to rebuild the classmap, including all plugins. You will need to call 
`composer du` to do this.

```shell
sudo -uwww-data composer du
```
</details>

> In case of merge conflicts refer to [the ILIAS Development Guide](http://www.ilias.de/docu/goto.php?target=pg_15604).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of merge conflicts, refer to [the ILIAS Development Guide](http://www.ilias.de/docu/goto.php?target=pg_15604).
```

You should only encounter these if you changed the code of your installation
locally.

Then complete the update by [updating the database](#database-the-update).

<a name="major-upgrade"></a>
## Major Upgrade

> To apply a major update (e.g. v9.13 to v10.1) please check that your OS has the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply a major upgrade (e.g. v9.13 to v10.1) please check that your OS has the
```

[proper dependency versions](#upgrading-dependencies) installed. If everything

> is fine change your default skin to Delos and apply this change at least to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is fine, change your default skin to Delos and apply this change at least to
```

```shell
sudo -uwww-data git fetch origin v10.X:v10.X
sudo -uwww-data git checkout v10.X
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>If you use the tar.gz provided in the release</summary>

Download the archive of the newest ILIAS minor version in [download](https://docu.ilias.de/go/lm/35).

```shell
sudo -uwww-data wget https://github.com/ILIAS-eLearning/ILIAS/releases/download/v10.X/ILIAS-10.X.tar.gz
sudo -uwww-data mkdir /tmp/ilias_update
sudo -uwww-data tar -xzf ILIAS-10.X.tar.gz  -C /tmp/ilias_update --strip-components=1 ILIAS-10.X/
sudo -uwww-data rsync -av --exclude='/public/' --exclude='/Customizing/' --exclude='/data/' --exclude='ilias.ini.php' /tmp/ilias_update/ /var/www/ilias/
rm -rf /tmp/ilias_update
```
</details>
After upgrading the code from ILIAS 9 to ILIAS 10 due to structural changes, you need to move the `/Customizing/global/plugins`
and `/data` folder to its new destination. Both are now located in the newly created `public` folder.

```shell
sudo -uwww-data mkdir -p public/Customizing/plugins
mv data public/
mv Customizing/global/plugins/Services/* public/Customizing/plugins/
mv Customizing/global/plugins/Modules/* public/Customizing/plugins/
```

> Then update the code of your plugins according to their documentation so that it is compatible with the new ILIAS version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then update the code of your plugins according to their documentation to ensure they are compatible with the new ILIAS version.
```

If you are **not** using the tar.gz archive to upgrade your release, update your javascript and php dependencies. If you
are using a tar.gz archive and are using plugins, reload your php classmap with `composer du`.

```shell
sudo -uwww-data npm clean-install --omit-dev --ignore-scripts
sudo -uwww-data composer install --no-dev
```

Complete the update of the base system by [updating the database](#database-the-update).

> As a last step you should log in with a User using your custom skin. If everything
> works fine change back from Delos to your custom system style. If not, you probably
> will need to update your style to match the new release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a last step, you should log in with a User using your custom skin. If everything
works fine, change back from Delos to your custom system style. If not, you probably
will need to update your style to match the new release.
```

or into the help of the program itself `php cli/setup.php help`. It is the tool
to manage and monitor your ILIAS installation.

Database updates are performed in steps; it might happen that a step fails, e.g. due
to some edge case or inconsistency in existing data, files, etc.
In this case, a concecutive command `php setup/setup.php update` will error with
a message like
> step 2 was started last, but step 1 was finished last.
> Aborting because of that mismatch.

You may reset the records for those steps by running:
```shell
php cli/setup.php achieve database.resetFailedSteps
```
However, be sure to understand the cause for the failing steps and tend to it before
resetting and running update again.

<a name="information-updates"></a>
## Information on Updates

To keep your ILIAS Installation secure and healthy it is important that you keep
it up to date. To get informations about updates and security fixes you should

> consider to subscribe to the [ILIAS Admin Mailing-List](http://lists.ilias.de/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/ilias-admins). Information on the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consider subscribing to the [ILIAS Admin Mailing-List](http://lists.ilias.de/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/ilias-admins). Information on the 
```

new versions, such as Important Changes, Known Issues, Changed Behaviour and Fixed 

> Issues, can be found in the release notes [Download & Releases](https://docu.ilias.de/go/lm/35).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issues, can be found in the release notes in [Download & Releases](https://docu.ilias.de/go/lm/35).
```

| 6.x            | 7.2.x, 7.3.x, 7.4.x         |

**DBMS:**

We strongly recommend using MariaDB instead of MySQL due to performance, licensing and compatibility in the future.

| ILIAS Version | MySQL Version       | MariaDB Version        |
|---------------|---------------------|------------------------|
| 10.0  - 10.x  | 8.0.x               | 10.4, 10.5, 10.6       |
| 9.0 - 9.x     | 8.0.x               | 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 |
| 8.0 - 8.x     | 5.7.x, 8.0.x        | 10.2, 10.3, 10.4       |
| 7.0 - 7.x     | 5.7.x, 8.0.x        | 10.1, 10.2, 10.3       |
| 6.0 - 6.x     | 5.6.x, 5.7.x, 8.0.x | 10.0, 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 |

<a name="webdav-configuration"></a>
## Configure WebDAV (optional)

The recommended webserver configuration is either **Apache with mod_php** or
**Nginx with PHP-FPM (> 1.3.8)**. Do NOT use **Apache with PHP-FPM** if you
want to use WebDAV. Find more information about the configuration of WebDAV
in the [WebDAV Readme](../../components/ILIAS/WebDAV/README.md).

<a name="hardening-and-security-guidance"></a>
## Hardening and Security Guidance

We recommend to perform a threat analysis for your ILIAS installation, as every

> prudent admin should do for his resources. In our [security guide](./secure.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prudent admin should do for his resources. In our [Security Guide](./secure.md)
```

we show techniques and strategies to be used to secure your ILIAS installation
according to your needs.

<a name="mysql-strict-mode-57"></a>
## MySQL Strict Mode (5.7+)

With MySQL 5.7+ you might see SQL errors like:

```
SQLSTATE[42000]: Syntax error or access violation: 1055 Expression #1 of
SELECT list is not in GROUP BY clause and contains nonaggregated column
'yourdbname.tblname.foobar' which is not functionally dependent on
columns in GROUP BY clause; this is incompatible with sql_mode=only_full_group_by
```

As a workaround `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES`, `STRICT_ALL_TABLES` and `ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY`

> must be disabled. To do so create the file `/etc/mysql/conf.d/disable_strict_mode.cnf`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
must be disabled. To do so, create the file `/etc/mysql/conf.d/disable_strict_mode.cnf`
```

| 7.0 - 7.x     | 5.7.x, 8.0.x        | 10.1, 10.2, 10.3       |
| 6.0 - 6.x     | 5.6.x, 5.7.x, 8.0.x | 10.0, 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 |

<a name="configurate-cron"></a>
## Configure Cron Jobs

> This step configures the execution of the cron job, which can be set to perform tasks such as sending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step configures the execution of the cron job, which can be set to perform tasks, such as sending
```

notifications.
You can manage these tasks in the ILIAS Administration under "Administration > General Settings > Cron Jobs".

To test the execution of the cron job manager, the following command MUST be used:

```shell
php /var/www/ilias/cli/cron.php run-jobs <user> <client_id> run-jobs
```

The `<user>` MUST be a valid, arbitrary user account within the ILIAS installation.
The `<client_id>` MUST correspond to the client ID of the ILIAS installation.

> To configure an automated cron job in your system, you need to create a user in ILIAS for example named `cron`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure an automated cron job in your system, you need to create a user in ILIAS, for example named `cron`.
```
